Well now that we've got the main bones in place let's go ahead and parent them.
And then also we're going to want to parent the objects to the bones.
So first of all let's begin with say this arm bone here I'm going to select it and go into edit mode
and if I selected this bone and then shift select the main bone here I should be able to press control
P and choose make parent with keep offset and that will now parent that bone.
And therefore this whole chain to the main bone of the body I'll do the same thing down here select
the upper leg bone shift select the main body bone control P and keep offset.
I will select this spotlight bone up here.
And then shifts like the body and press control.
I'll also do that on the other side.
So now they all should be Parenthood to that main bone of the body.
If I tabbed out of that mode and go into pose mode and maybe rotated this you can see that they all
come along.
So now I want to parent these individual objects to each of their corresponding bones.
Now to do that I need to go through a similar process here.
But for this I'm going to make sure that the armature is in PPOs mode and then I'm going to go over
and select that object.
So like say this upper arm shift select that bone and press control P and parent to the bone.
So same thing here.
Select the lower arm shift select that bone control P and bone I'll do that with the body
and on through the whole rig.
I'll begin on the fingers here.
Selecting one joint shift selecting a bone and control P.
one thing that I've noticed as I've been going through this is that if I select this bone and I rotate
it the fingers do not come along.
Same with the bone I appear if I select this bone and rotate it.
The fingers don't come along so I need to parent those fingers to this main hand bone.
So I'm going to go back to edit mode and select this finger and shifts like the hand and then press
control P and keep offset.
Now if I go to pose mode and rotate this now that comes along that's what we want.
So I just forgot to parent the fingers to the hand.
So I'll go ahead and do that.
So now if I go to pose mode and select this lower arm if I hit the Arki to rotate.
Now everything comes along for the ride and lastly I'll need to select this object the spotlight and
shift select that bone and press control P and parent to bone.
So now if I select that bone and I'll press R twice and now I can rotate around like that.
So now we can see if I Slik this main body bone and hit our twice again I can rotate this guy around
and everything comes along and that's what we want.
So the next thing let's do is set up what's called an iCade chain on the legs and I K stands for inverse
kinematics which means that we'll be able to select like the ankle and when we move the ankle around
it will move the entire leg.
So it's kind of like when someone shakes your hand and they move your hand around and your whole arm
at the elbow and shoulder adjusts as the hand is moved around.
So what we need is an I.K. target a target down here near the ankle that the inverse kinematics chain
can use as it's control object.
A good thing to use is just this foot bone here.
So I'm going to select the armature and I'll go into edit mode.
I'll select that.
Let me turn off the axes here.
So there you go.
So to create an I.K. target I'll just select this bone and press shift D and then I'll hit enter and
that will create a new bone there.
If I look in the properties panel and scroll down here I can see that it's been named foot.
Heal l 001.
So that's the copy that's the one we want to rename and I'll call this foot I K Dot else.
And this will be the I.K. target for the left foot here.
Now this foot bone was a child of the lower leg bone and it's also apparent of the toe.
But we need to clear those out.
We need to clear that parenting information out.
So let's press with this new bone selected let's press alt P and let's clear the parent for this bone
we go.
All right.
So now what we need to do is go ahead and create the iCade chain.
So I will go to pose mode and select this lower leg.
And in post mode we get this panel over here this bone constraints panel I select that I can add a bone
constrained and in here I'll choose inverse kinematics.
Now we have a few things that we need to fill in here.
First of all we need to target something.
So to do that I'm going to click in this field and choose the armature first and then the bone within
the armature that we're going to target.
I'm going to type in foot and it'll search for everything with foot in it and I'll choose this foot
I.K..
Now the iCade Shane is going to consist of two bones the lower leg and the upper leg.
So I need to set the chain length to match that so I need to change this to two.
And now if I come back and select that I k target let me click I can click through here and kind of
toggle between two.
So there's the foot heel the original one if I click again I get the foot OK.
Now if I hit the G key and move this around you can see I'm moving the entire leg around which is kind
of cool.
There you go.
There's our robot leg.
All right.
So now as we move this around you can see that click there.
And now you can see that the foot bone isn't following the I.K. target.
So we need to fix that.
So to clear the location of this and get it back to where it was I could just press command Z to do
but I can also press alt G and that will clear the location.
You can also clear the rotation with Allt are and clear the scale with old ass.
So let's constrain that original foot bone or click here again that foot heel bone.
Let's constrain that to the I.K. target.
So I'll add a bone constraint and I'll choose a copy rotation constraint and for the target I'll choose
the armature for the target bone or type in foot and choose that foot.
I.K. bone.
And now if I choose that foot I K should be able to move this around and have that foot bone stay constrained
to the I.K. target.
Now if I move it away away you can see it's going to pull away.
But generally speaking within the range of the leg it should be fine.
Let's go ahead and create an iCade chain over here on this other leg.
So I'll choose the foot.
He'll actually I need to go into edit mode to do that.
So I'll choose this foot heel bone all duplicated
and let's call it foot I K Dot R.
Let's clear any parenting information by pressing alt P and clear parent Nalut switch to pose mode and
select that lower leg bone and let's add a constraint and inverse kinematics.
And for our target we'll choose armature for our target bone type and foot will choose that foot.
ICade our will change the chain length to where we go.
So now if we choose that foot I.K. bone we should be able to move things around but we want to constrain
the foot bone to the I.K. bone.
So I'll select that foot heel.
Our go to our constrains panel Add a bone constraint and let's add that copy rotation again.
We'll choose armature for our target foot iCade are for the bone.
And so now if we choose that I.K. bone we can hit G and move that foot around.
All right.
So we now have I.K. chains for each of the legs.
We should now be able to choose this main body bone and hit G and move him around and he does deep knee
bends.
So we're getting there in the next video we'll take a look at creating a full roll rig for each of the
feet so that we can roll the feet up onto the ball of the foot and back onto its heel.